# Ukrainian-Displacement

The Russo-Ukrainian war, and specifically the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, has led to the largest displacement since World War II (Lee et al., 2023). This study examines the role of the third sector in supporting displaced Ukrainians in Europe since March 2022. Mintzberg (2015) defined the “third sector” as “any association of people that is neither public nor private, neither owned by the state nor by private investors”. In a survey of 6,680 Ukrainians, this study quantitatively compares integration outcomes (discrimination, social and economic inclusion, and language skills), based on Ukrainians’ accommodation in the public, private and third sector. The third sector hosted 61% of displaced Ukrainians, demonstrating capacity and scalability compared to the public (32%) and private (7%) sectors. Ukrainians hosted by the third sector had higher social and economic outcomes compared to the private sector, underscoring the importance of the third sector in displacement. In a qualitative study based on 17 interviews with the Polish Red Cross, the third sector supported displaced Ukrainians through volunteer engagement and organizational flexibility. Overall our quantitative and qualitative results point to the third sector as a crucial component in forced migration, as it has high capacity for accommodating migrants, improves integration outcomes, engages volunteers to mobilize rapidly, is widespread allowing for local tailoring, and is flexible and adaptable to changing needs and increasing scale. 
 
